docs: Adding dtensor TP debugging summary (#1767)
NVIDIA-NeMo/RL: docs/dtensor-tp-accuracy/dtensor-tp-accuracy.md

To investigate whether mixed‑precision arithmetic was a major contributor, autocast was disabled in a separate set of experiments so that computations were performed in full precision. However, the validation losses with and without autocast are essentially identical for all TP settings, indicating that mixed‑precision itself is not the root cause of the discrepancy. Instead, these results imply that the primary source of inconsistency lies in how different TP plans partition and aggregate computations across devices, rather than in precision loss from autocast.

|               | TP=1   | TP=2   | TP=4   | TP=8   |
| ------------- | ------ | ------ | ------ | ------ |
| With autocast | 0.6035 | 0.6010 | 0.5864 | 0.6021 |
| W/O autocast  | 0.6035 | 0.6010 | 0.5864 | 0.6021 |

> <center style="color:#C0C0C0;">  Table 1:The validation loss of reward model training </center> 

Reviewer: Done.

### 1.3  Overall Performance Degradation Under Tensor Parallelism

Figure 2 and Figure 3 present the reward curves and validation accuracy curves for multiple runs under different tensor parallel (TP) configurations. We also apply EMA smoothing for better visualization. The mismatch between the policy engine and the generation engine can lead to degraded downstream accuracy. This issue is most evident in the blue and purple curves, whose corresponding experiments are also the most abnormal cases observed in Figure 1. 

> Combine the three images for observation, it's not true that abnormal `token_mult_prob_erro`r must lead to abnormal reward and validation accuracy. This is because for several reasons.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Combine the three images for observation, it's not true that abnormal `token_mult_prob_error` must lead to abnormal reward and validation accuracy. This is because for several reasons.
```

Reviewer: Done.

1. **Spike pattern instead of continuous growth**: In many runs, `token_mult_prob_error` shows frequent spikes rather than a monotonically increasing trend, indicating that training is unstable but not fundamentally broken.
2. **Stochastic occurrence of spikes**: The abnormal `token_mult_prob_error` is itself unstable; even with the same batch of data, spikes may not appear in every run.
3. **Dilution effect with large datasets**: When the dataset is sufficiently large and no critical samples are repeatedly affected, these extreme but sporadic spikes may have limited impact on aggregate metrics, so the final reward and validation accuracy may not exhibit significant deviations.

<img src="./Fig/image-20260111142255534.png" alt="image-20260111142255534" style="zoom: 33%;" />

> <center style="color:#C0C0C0;">  Fig 2: The reward of Qwen3-4B </center>

Reviewer 2: same centering style comment

Reviewer: Done.

<img src="./Fig/validation_accuracy.png" style="zoom:33%;" />

> <center style="color:#C0C0C0;">  Fig 3: The validation accuracy of Qwen3-4B </center>

Reviewer 2: same centering style comment

Reviewer: Done.

```math
\begin{aligned}
\text{ratio} &= \exp\!\left(\text{current\_logprobs} - \text{prev\_logprobs}\right) \\
&= \exp\!\left(\log\!\left(\frac{\text{current\_probs}}{\text{prev\_probs}}\right)\right) \\
&= \frac{\text{current\_probs}}{\text{prev\_probs}}
\end{aligned}
```

This ratio is the standard [importance sampling](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Importance_sampling) ratio used in off-policy RL to reweight returns when the data are collected under an older behavior policy.  In on-policy training, this ratio should be exactly 1.  However, in our experiments, we observed cases where the ratio deviates from 1, indicating a mismatch between the intended on-policy setting and the actual behavior of the system. Figure 4 and Figure 5 illustrate this phenomenon by showing the mismatch between `prev_logprobs` and `current_logprobs` under TP=4, as well as the reward curves under TP=4 and TP=1 for the `deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Qwen-7B` model.

![](./Fig/logprobs_unequal_1.png)

> <center style="color:#C0C0C0;">  Fig 4: The mismatch of prev_logprobs and current_logprobs under TP=4 </center>

Reviewer: Done.

<img src="./Fig/image-20260111160656891-1768118824549-2.png" alt="image-20260111160656891" style="zoom: 25%;" />

> <center style="color:#C0C0C0;">  Fig 5: The reward of deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Qwen-7B under TP=4 and TP=1 </center>

Reviewer 2: same centering style comment
